The mark bands below are rough and general descriptions; speeches needn’t have every
feature described to fit in a particular band. Many speakers will range across multiple bands
depending on the feature assessed – for example, their style might appear of the 75-79
range, while their engagement might be closer to the 65-69 bracket, and their
argumentation closest to the 70-74 range. Judges should not treat any individual feature as
decisive in and of itself, but should rather aim to balance all features of the speech to come
to the speaker score that seems most appropriate. Throughout this scale, ‘arguments’ refers
both to constructive material and responses.
95-100
Plausibly one of the very best debating speeches ever given, flawless and
astonishingly compelling in every regard. It is incredibly difficult to think up
satisfactory responses to any of the arguments made.
90-94
Brilliant arguments are extremely well-explained and analysed in great depth, always
central to the case being advocated, and demand highly sophisticated responses. The
speech is very clear and incredibly compelling in its delivery. Role fulfilment is
executed flawlessly, and includes excellent engagement with other teams in the
debate. Plausible one of the very best speeches that would be given at WUDC in any
given year.
85-89
Very good arguments are highly compelling and analysed deeply; responses of real
sophistication would be required to refute them. Delivery is clear and highly
persuasive. Role fulfilment is close to flawless, and the speech engages directly and
effectively with other teams in the debate.
80-84
Consistently relevant arguments set-up or address key issues in the round with a
good degree of explanation and analysis. The speech is clear throughout, and
persuasively delivered. Role is well-fulfilled and engagement with other teams, whilst
possibly lax on some points, is generally effective and convincing.
75-79
Arguments are almost exclusively relevant, and frequently persuasive. Occasionally,
but not often, the speaker may slip into: i) deficits in explanation; ii) simplistic
argumentation vulnerable to competent responses; or iii) peripheral or irrelevant
arguments. The speaker holds one’s attention, provides clear structure, and
successfully fulfils their basic role on the table. A genuine effort to engage effectively
with other teams in the debate is made, though some important contributions may
be missed or poorly unaddressed.
70-74
Arguments are generally relevant, and some explanation of them given, but on
multiple occasions there may be: i) obvious gaps in logic; ii) simplistic argumentation;
or iii) peripheral or irrelevant material. The speaker mostly holds the audience’s
attention and is usually clear, but is not always compelling, and may sometimes be
difficult to follow. 